# F2FS compatibility test

These are the f2fs images and tests to test the compatibility with Linux f2fs.

Images are generated by running "image_gen.sh".

## directory_test.img

There are two subdirectories in the root directory.

"depth" has 60 subdirectories recursively beneath it. (//depth/0/1/.../59)

"width" has 60 subdirectories directly under it. Among these:
- 20 remained unchanged after creation (0, 1, ..., 19)
- 20 renamed after creation (20, 21, ..., 39 to 120, 121, 122, ..., 139)
- 20 deleted after creation (40, 41, ..., 59)

## file_test.img

There are several files for file test.

When writing, each 4 KB block is filled so that every byte inside the block contains the block’s index value (0-based).

"file_write" is a file that is created and written to 64KB.

"file_truncate" is a file that is created and truncated to 16KB.

"file_truncate_shrink" is a file that is created, written to 64KB, and then truncated to 16KB.

"file_exceed" is a file that is created and written to 7KB, for testing partial read of the last block.

"renamed_file" is a file that is created with name "file_rename" and renamed to "renamed_file".

"file_fallocate" is a file that is created and fallocated to 64KB.

"file_fallocate_hole" is a file that is created, written to 64KB, and then fallocated with punch hole option (from 8KB to 16KB offset).

"filemode_xxx" are files with filemode from 000 to 777.

## inline_test.img

There are two files and one subdirectory in the root directory for inline test.

"inline_file" is an inline file that has data.

"inline_file_empty" is an inline file that doesn't have data.

"inline_dir" is an inline directory that has 3 children ("a", "b" and "c").
