# Updating Golden Files

## Introduction

Golden files help ensure that changes to the [Fuchsia System Interface] are
expected and acknowledged.

API level-specific golden files are stored in the [SDK history] directory.
[API level-independent] golden files with the extension `.api` are stored
throughout fuchsia.git, though are usually under `//sdk/` and with the
associated library definition.

## Types and when they are generated

### FIDL libraries

For stable and exposed (in the IDK) FIDL libraries, there are API level-specific
`.api_summary.json` golden files within `//sdk/history`. For every such library,
there is an `.api_summary.json` in each of the API level subdirectories. If the
library is not supported at a given API level, the file will be empty.

There should be no changes to golden files when making modifications at `HEAD`,
which is usually the first step in making a change.
When promoting that change to `NEXT`, the corresponding file(s) in
`//sdk/history/NEXT/` need to be updated. When adding a new library and in other
rare cases, the corresponding files for all supported API levels will need to be
added or updated, respectively.

FIDL libraries also have [API level-independent] `.api` golden files.

<!--
// LINT.IfChange(fidl)
-->
The best way to generate/test all the FIDL golden files is to run:
```
fx build //sdk/fidl:compatibility_tests
```
<!--
// LINT.ThenChange(//sdk/fidl/BUILD.gn:compatibility_tests)
-->

When modifying files for stable (numbered) API levels, it may be necessary to
use `update_goldens = true` in your `fx args` to avoid build errors.

### Other libraries

#### API level-independent golden files {#api-level-independent}

There are many golden files, often with the extension `api`, that are
independent of the API level. These are generated and checked when building the
relevant code in the main build (normal `fx build`, not a sub-build). These
files can currently be found throughout fuchsia.git.

These files generally need to be updated whenever a change is made to the
covered source file(s).

#### API level-specific golden files {#other-api-level-specific}

Finally, there are API level-specific golden files for non-FIDL interfaces.
For example, `.ifs` files for shared libraries.
These must be generated by a sub-build for the appropriate API level.

There should be no changes when making modifications at `HEAD`, which is usually
the first step in making a change.
When promoting that change to `NEXT`, the corresponding file(s) in
`//sdk/history/NEXT/` need to be updated as described in the following section.

##### Generating golden files for `NEXT`

There are two ways to do generate golden files for `NEXT`. The second, longer
option may be necessary in rare cases that affect multiple API levels.

###### Build a single sub-build

```
fx build -- -C $(fx get-build-dir)/idk_subbuild.fuchsia_collection_for_subbuilds-apiNEXT-x64 sdk:fuchsia_collection_for_subbuilds
```

It is recommended to use `update_goldens = true` in your `fx args` because
the command lines in the error message are currently incorrect for sub-builds
([https://fxbug.dev/384955652](https://fxbug.dev/384955652)).

###### Build all sub-builds

See [All sub-builds](working_with_subbuilds.md#building-all-sub-builds).

It is recommended to use `update_goldens = true` in your `fx args` since there
may be files from multiple API levels to update.

## Generating most golden files

<!--
// LINT.IfChange(generate_compatibility_goldens)
-->
The following command will generate goldens for all versioned
[FIDL libraries](#fidl-libraries) and [API level-independent] golden files for
most other libraries in the Fuchsia IDK. It will not generate non-FIDL
[API level-specific] golden files.

```
fx build //sdk:generate_compatibility_goldens
```

You must include `--with //sdk:generate_compatibility_goldens` in your `fx set`
command in order to build this target.
<!--
// LINT.ThenChange(//sdk/BUILD.gn:generate_compatibility_goldens)
-->

[Fuchsia System Interface]: /docs/concepts/kernel/system.md
[SDK history]: /sdk/history/README.md
[API level-independent]: #api-level-independent
[API level-specific]: #other-api-level-specific
